REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: a76b624e-308b-4e1b-bb64-07f5856fd169

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Appendix A - Hospitals
Regulatory Entity: CMS

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: CMS 482.12
Title: 482.12 Governing Body

OVERVIEW:
There must be an effective governing body that is legally responsible for the
conduct of the hospital. If a hospital does not have an organized governing
body, the persons legally responsible for the conduct of the hospital must carry
out the functions specified in this part that pertain to the governing body.

ABOUT:
Interpretive Guidelines §482.12 The hospital must have a governing body which is
effective in carrying out its responsibilities for the conduct of the hospital. 
In the absence of an organized governing body, there must be written
documentation that identifies the individual or individuals that are legally
responsible for the conduct of the hospital operations. If the hospital is part
of a healthcare system that includes several separately certified hospitals,
each with its own Medicare provider agreement and CMS Certification Number, the
governing body of the healthcare system has the option to act as the governing
body of each separately certified hospital, unless doing so would conflict with
State law.  A hospital system also has the option to form several governing
bodies, each of which is responsible for several separately certified
hospitals.  For example, a health system operating hospitals in many States
might choose to form regional sub-boards each responsible for the hospitals in
its region, or a health system that has a mixture of types of hospitals may
choose to form one sub-board responsible for its short-term acute care hospitals
and another for its long term care hospitals. When deciding whether or not to
exercise the option to have a single governing body for multiple hospitals in
the system, another factor for systems to consider might be Medicare payment
requirements at §§412.22(e) - (h) applicable to certain types of hospitals,
i.e., non-grandfathered  Hospitals-within-Hospitals and Hospital Satellites.  In
such cases where the hospital system owns both the tenant and the host hospital,
using a single governing body for both hospitals would jeopardize the payment
status of a hospital that is being paid by Medicare under a payment system
excluded from the Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System (IPPS). 
However, surveyors do not assess compliance with or enforce the Medicare payment
regulations that govern Hospitals-within-Hospitals or Hospital Satellites. The
Medicare program offers hospital facilities considerable flexibility regarding
how they choose to participate.  Based on the geographic and other institutional
limitations set out in the “provider-based” regulation at §413.65, which
addresses provider-based status for hospital facilities in multiple locations,
hospital governing bodies make business decisions about how they want to
participate in Medicare, and they indicate on their Medicare enrollment
application the choices they have made.  It is not uncommon to find multiple
hospital campuses with one owner located in the same geographic area enrolled in
Medicare as one hospital.  It is also not uncommon to see a hospital system
choosing to enroll its various facilities as separately certified hospitals. 
Various factors enter into consideration when the governing body of a system
makes these decisions. For example, some governing bodies prefer to enroll
various campuses as separate hospitals, out of a concern that problems at one
hospital’s campus might jeopardize the Medicare participation of the other
campuses if they were a multi-campus hospital covered under one Medicare
provider agreement.  In other cases a governing body may see the benefits of
integrating clinical services on multiple campuses into one integrated
hospital.  In still other cases, the deciding factor might be the implications
for Medicare reimbursement of graduate medical education, the ease of adding
satellite locations, etc. CMS defers to the governing bodies of hospitals to
weigh the pertinent factors and permissible options, and to make business
decisions in their best interest when applying to participate in Medicare. 
CMS’s hospital certification decisions and issuance of a provider agreement and
associated CCN follow from these business decisions by a hospital’s governing
body.  But once the “hospital,” with whatever component parts, has been
certified, that hospital must independently demonstrate its compliance with the
CoPs, independent of any other facility.  (77 FR 29040, May 16, 2012) If a
hospital system has chosen to have a one body act as the governing body for
multiple separately certified hospitals (i.e., a system governing body), this
does not alter the fact that each hospital must independently demonstrate
compliance with the CoPs.  Examples of what this means include, but are not
limited to, the following: • Each separately certified hospital must be
separately and independently assessed for its compliance with the CoPs, through
either State Survey Agency or approved Medicare hospital accreditation program
surveys.   There is no survey of a hospital “system,” since the Medicare
provider agreement and its terms are specific to each certified hospital. • A
system governing body may wish to adopt identical policies and procedures for
many aspects of a hospital’s operations across all of its hospitals within the
system.  It has the flexibility to do so, but the documentation of such policies
and procedures must be clear that the governing body has chosen to apply them to
specifically named hospitals. Also, each hospital must be able to present for
inspection the system governing body policies and procedures that clearly apply
to that hospital.  For example: A document that says “XX Healthsystem has
adopted the following policy” is not acceptable.  Instead, the document must be
more specific, such as, “XX Healthsystem adopts the following policy and
procedure for Hospital A, Hospital B, and Hospital C.”  Furthermore, the names
of each hospital (Hospitals A, B, and C in this example) must correspond to the
names used for their provider agreements.  For example, if Hospital C is one
Medicare-certified hospital with two inpatient campuses, one called “East” and
one called “West,” it is not acceptable for the policy document to state, “XX
Healthsystem adopts the following policy and procedure for Hospital A, Hospital
B, and Hospital East and Hospital West.”  It would be acceptable to state, “XX
Healthsystem adopts the following policy and procedure for Hospital A, Hospital
B, and Hospital C.” It also is not acceptable for the policy document to state,
“XX Healthsystem adopts the following policy and procedure for Hospital A,
Hospital B, and Hospital East, but not Hospital West.”  Since “Hospitals” East
and West refer to separate campuses of Hospital C, which participates in
Medicare as one multicampus hospital, it is not appropriate to refer to these
separate campuses of C as “hospitals,” since the XX Healthsystem made a business
decision to enroll them as parts of one multi-campus hospital in Medicare.   CMS
recognizes that, depending on the particular policy topic, it may be acceptable
to have policies that vary by type of unit/department within a hospital.  The
system governing body could achieve this as follows:  “XX Healthsystem adopts
the following policy and procedure requiring that a physician be on-site 24
hours per day, seven days per week on the inpatient campuses of Hospital A and
Hospital B, but within Hospital C, only for the East inpatient campus.” •
Likewise, the minutes of the governing body must be written in such a manner so
that it is clear when the governing body has taken actions that apply to a
specific certified hospital. • Departments of separately certified hospitals
with one system governing body cannot be operationally integrated.  For example,
if a system has chosen to operate three separately certified hospitals in
relatively close proximity to each other rather than to have them certified as
one multi-campus hospital, then each hospital must have its own nursing
service.  It may not have one integrated nursing service with one Director of
Nursing who manages one nursing staff for all three hospitals.  The system
cannot maintain one integrated schedule that assigns nursing staff among the
different hospitals.  The system also cannot move them back and forth between
hospitals on an ad hoc, as needed basis, as if they were one hospital. On the
other hand, the policies and procedures the governing body has adopted for the
nursing service in each hospital may be identical, so long as the services
operate separately.  It is also permissible for the same individual to be the
Director of Nursing for each hospital, provided that he or she is able to carry
out all of the duties of the position in each hospital, such as managing each
hospital's separate nursing staff.  It is also permissible for one nurse to work
at multiple hospitals within the system, in the same way that a nurse may work
for multiple hospitals that do not share ownership, but the nurse must have
separate work schedules for each hospital.  Such schedules cannot overlap. •
Likewise, although the system may choose to operate a quality
assessment/performance improvement (QAPI) program at the system level which
standardizes indicators measured across system hospitals, each separately-
certified hospital in the system must have a QAPI program that is specific to
that hospital.  This is required not only to demonstrate compliance, but also
for the governing body to function effectively, since reviewing QAPI program
results only at the system level would make it difficult for the governing body
to identify and act upon problems that are localized to one hospital. For
example, the system may choose to use the same quality indicators or the same
methodology to track adverse events across all system hospitals.  But each
certified hospital must have its own QAPI data with respect to these indicators
and adverse events.  If a system is tracking readmission rates across all of its
hospitals, it must be able to separate out the hospital-specific results for the
governing body’s review and possible action. The governing body must be
functioning effectively and holds the ultimate responsibility for the hospital’s
compliance not only with the specific standards of the governing body CoP, but
also with all of the CoPs.  This is the case regardless of whether the
regulatory text for a particular condition or standard within a condition
specifically mentions responsibilities of the governing body.  Substantial,
i.e., condition-level, non-compliance with one of the other hospital CoPs may be
an indicator that the governing body is not functioning effectively.  However,
it is not the policy of CMS that condition-level noncompliance with any other
CoP automatically results in a condition-level citation of the governing body
CoP.  Surveyors must consider whether the manner and degree of the other
deficiencies provide sufficient evidence to conclude that the governing body is
not functioning effectively. Survey Procedures §482.12 • Verify that the
hospital has an organized governing body or has written documentation that
identifies the individual or individuals that are responsible for the conduct of
the hospital operations. • If the hospital is part of a hospital system which
uses one governing body for several of the hospital’s separately certified
within the system: • Review the governing body minutes to determine if it is
clear which actions pertain to which hospitals. • Select for review several
policy and procedure documents adopted by the system governing body to determine
if it is clear that they apply to the hospital being surveyed.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: CMS 482.12 (a)
Code: 482.12
Description: Medical staff

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. CMS 482.12.(a).A-0047 (A-0047)
   [The governing body must:]
§482.12(a)(3) Assure that the medical staff has bylaws;


2. CMS 482.12.(a).A-0046 (A-0046)
   [The governing body must:]
 §482.12(a)(2)  Appoint members of the medical staff after considering the
recommendations of the existing members of the medical staff;

3. CMS 482.12.(a).A-0045 (A-0045)
   [The governing body must:]
 §482.12(a)(1) Determine, in accordance with State law, which categories of
practitioners are eligible candidates for appointment to the medical staff;


4. CMS 482.12.(a).A-0048 (A-0048)
   [The governing body must:]
§482.12(a)(4) Approve medical staff bylaws and other medical staff rules and
regulations;


5. CMS 482.12.(a).A-0049 (A-0049)
   [The governing body must:]
§482.12(a)(5) Ensure that the medical staff is accountable to the governing body
for the quality of care provided to patients;

6. CMS 482.12.(a).A-0050 (A-0050)
   [The governing body must:]
§482.12(a)(6) Ensure the criteria for selection are individual character,
competence, training, experience, and judgment; and

7. CMS 482.12.(a).A-0051 (A-0051)
   [The governing body must:]
§482.12(a)(7) Ensure that under no circumstances is the accordance of staff
membership or professional privileges in the hospital dependent solely upon
certification, fellowship or membership in a specialty body or society.


8. CMS 482.12.(a).7 (7)
   Ensure that under no circumstances is the accordance of staff membership or
professional privileges in the hospital dependent solely upon certification,
fellowship, or membership in a specialty body or society.


9. CMS 482.12.(a).9 (9)
   (A-0052) Ensure that when telemedicine services are furnished to the
hospital's patients through an agreement with a distant-site telemedicine
entity, the written agreement specifies that the distant-site telemedicine
entity is a contractor of services to the hospital and as such, in accordance
with §482.12(e), furnishes the contracted services in a manner that permits the
hospital to comply with all applicable conditions of participation for the
contracted services, including, but not limited to, the requirements in
paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section with regard to the distant-site
telemedicine entity's physicians and practitioners providing telemedicine
services. The governing body of the hospital whose patients are receiving the
telemedicine services may, in accordance with §482.22(a)(4) of this part, grant
privileges to physicians and practitioners employed by the distant-site
telemedicine entity based on such hospital's medical staff recommendations; such
staff recommendations may rely on information provided by the distant-site
telemedicine entity.

10. CMS 482.12.(a).A-0052 (A-0052)
   [The governing body must:]
§482.12(a)(8)  Ensure that, when telemedicine services are furnished to the
hospital’s patients through an agreement with a distant-site hospital, the
agreement is written and that it specifies that it is the responsibility of the
governing body of the distant-site hospital to meet the requirements in
paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section with regard to  the distant
–site hospital’s physicians and practitioners providing telemedicine services.
The governing body of the hospital whose patients are receiving the telemedicine
services may, in accordance with §482.22(a)(3) of this part, grant privileges
based on its medical staff recommendations that rely on information provided by
the distant-site hospital.
§482.12(a)(9)  Ensure that when telemedicine services are furnished to the
hospital’s patients through an agreement with a distant-site telemedicine
entity, the  written agreement specifies that the distant-site telemedicine
entity is a contractor of services to the hospital and as such, in accordance
with §482.12(e), furnishes the contracted services in a manner that permits the
hospital to comply with all applicable conditions of participation for the
contracted services, including, but not limited to, the requirements in
paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section with regard to the distant-site
telemedicine entity’s physicians and practitioners providing telemedicine
services.  The governing body of the hospital whose patients are receiving the
telemedicine services may, in accordance with §482.22(a)(4) of this part, grant
privileges to physicians and practitioners employed by the distant-site
telemedicine entity  based on such hospital’s medical staff recommendations;
such staff recommendations may  rely on information provided by the distant-site
telemedicine entity.

11. CMS 482.12.(a).A-0053 (A-0053)
   [The governing body must:]
§482.12(a)(10)  Consult directly with the individual assigned the responsibility
for the organization and conduct of the hospital’s medical staff, or his or her
designee.  At a minimum, this direct consultation must occur periodically
throughout the fiscal or calendar year and include discussion of matters related
to the quality of medical care provided to patients of the hospital.  For a
multi-hospital system using a single governing body, the single multi-hospital
system governing body must consult directly with the individual responsible for
the organized medical staff (or his or her designee) of each hospital within its
system in addition to the other requirements of this paragraph (a).

12. CMS 482.12.(a).A-0044 (A-0044)
   §482.12(a)  Standard:  Medical Staff.  The governing body must:

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------